---
id: object-visibility
title: Object Visibility
sidebar_label: Object Visibility
---

## What Is NetworkObject Visibility?
Object (NetworkObject) visibility is a Netcode for GameObjects term used to describe whether a `NetworkObject` is visible to one or more clients as it pertains to a netcode/network perspective.  When a `NetworkObject` is visible to a client, the the server will assure the client has a spawned version (a clone) of the `NetworkObject`.  This also means that all network traffic generated by the server for the visible `NetworkObject` will be sent to all clients that are aware (i.e. it is "visible to the clients") of it.  Likewise, when a `NetworkObject` is "hidden" (i.e. not visible) from a client, then the client will despawn and destroy the `NetworkObject` if it was previously visible and no network traffic generated by the hidden `NetworkObject` will be received by the client(s) it is hidden from.


## Using Visibility

One way to determine visibility is to assign a callback to `NetworkObject.CheckObjectVisibility`.  This callback is invoked when new clients connect or just before the associated `NetworkObject` is spawned. Looking at the example below, we can see the callback includes a client identifier (clientId) value as a parameter which is used to determine whether the `NetworkObject` is visible to the client.  If `NetworkObject.CheckObjectVisibility` is not assigned, then Netcode for GameObjects assumes it is visible to all clients.

### CheckObjectVisibility Callback Example 
```csharp
NetworkObject netObject = GetComponent<NetworkObject>();
netObject.CheckObjectVisibility = ((clientId) => {
    // return true to show the object, return false to hide it


    if (Vector3.Distance(NetworkManager.Singleton.ConnectedClients[clientId].PlayerObject.transform.position, transform.position) < 5)
    {
        // Only show the object to players that are within 5 meters. Note that this has to be rechecked by your own code
        // If you want it to update as the client and objects distance change.
        // This callback is usually only called once per client
        return true;
    }
    else
    {
        // Hide this NetworkObject
        return false;
    }
});
```

### Additional Visibility Methods:
The `CheckObjectVisibility` callback helps you determine if a `NetworkObject` is visible to a specific client when the `NetworkObject` is spawned.  However, you might have the need to change a `NetworkObject`'s visibility after it is spawned.  To change the visibility of a `NetworkObject` that is already spawned, you can use the following methods:

Make a `NetworkObject` visible to a single client:
```csharp
NetworkObject netObject = GetComponent<NetworkObject>();
netObject.NetworkShow(clientIdToShowTo);
```

Make a `NetworkObject` invisible/hidden from a single client:
```csharp
NetworkObject netObject = GetComponent<NetworkObject>();
netObject.NetworkHide(clientIdToHideFrom);
```

Make several `NetworkObject`s visible to a single client (static method):
```csharp
/// networkObjects is of type List<NetworkObject>
NetworkObject.NetworkShow(networkObjects, clientId);
```

Make several `NetworkObject`s invisible/hidden to a single client (static method):
```csharp
/// networkObjects is of type List<NetworkObject>
NetworkObject.NetworkHide(networkObjects, clientId);
```
