---
title: Multiplayer Networking docs are live!
author: Lori Krell
author_title: Unity, Senior Tech Writer
authorImageURL: 'https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/76010626?v=4'
tags: [releases]
description: Welcome to the new release of the Unity Multiplayer documentation site and content. Learn more about Unity MLAPI, Transport, releases, and more. Contribute to help support all developers and designers of multiplayer games.
---

The Unity Multiplayer Networking documentation site is live with updated and new content, tutorials, glossary, troubleshooting, API reference, and much more.

## Everything is a click away

The new doc site provides top navigation for immediate content, quick links for community information and contacts, a search, and dark/light mode! Each page includes a side navigation for content in the section and on the page. Charts and workflows use Mermaid. And we support tabbed content, videos, animations, and so much more.

Take us on the go! The site is fully responsive for desktops and devices, with new features being added as needed.

[Site tour](/img/blog/site-tour1.png)

## Learn about the latest news

Monthly we will provide blog posts on releases, news, contributions, state of the project, Boss Room, and much more. We may even host tech papers and interviews with some of our best contributors and Unity staff. 

## Learn about the latest releases

Find release notes and a documentation changelog through the [Release Notes](/releases/introduction) section. All release notes include new and updated features, fixes, known issues, breaking changes, and upgrade information.

## Search with Algolia

Simply click in the search bar and start typing. Find content by page name or located text. Algolia Open Source supports our site with helpful search indexing and powerful analytics. 

[Search](/img/blog/blog-search.png)

## Contribute and help build content

As an open source product and documentation site, we welcome your ideas for features, feedback on content, and contributions. We will highlight your support in this blog, in social media, and highlight your name for significant additions.

The [Contribution Guide](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/com.unity.multiplayer.docs/wiki) helps you get started.

[Doc Process](/img/blog/contribute-pass.png)
