---
title: Boss Room 0.2.0 is live!
author: Lori Krell
author_title: Unity, Senior Tech Writer
tags: [releases, bossroom]
description: Welcome to the next release of the Unity Boss Room Small Scale Co-op Sample for version 0.2.0. This release includes numerous added features, updates, and fixes.
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

Thank you for your continued support for MLAPI and the Boss Room Small Scale Co-op Sample! We have released a new v. 0.2.0 release of Boss Room, using 0.1.0 experimental MLAPI.

In the past month, the team has delivered new features, optimizations, and numerous fixes and changes including the following highlights: 

* Updated and introduced various hero abilities, such as: Archer’s PowerShot which accounts for a duration that a key is pressed for or Rogue Dash that teleports the player to a target spot  - to learn more about how to handle teleport-like abilities in a networked environment, please check out the DashAttackAction.cs - as well as Implementing a better cooldown solution and calculations.
* Introduced static scene `NetworkObject`s, as well as implementing a `ScriptableObject` based event system to encapsulate events inside assets.
* Increased the overall GPU performance of Boss Room by disabling GPU Skinning, enabling GPU instancing, turning off Cast Shadows for various prefabs, and more optimizations.
* Updated the user interface in many places and refactored the Action Bar code to increase the extensibility without the need of having to manually modify the code in multiple areas.
* Updated our `GameNetPortal` to properly handle Per-Connection state on client disconnect and Player connection if they experience a game-level connection failure - you can check out the `ApprovalCheck` function in our *ServerGameNetPortal.cs*.
* Fixed various known issues from the previous release.

Find all details in our [changelog](/releases/samples/samples-0-2-0) and download the release from [GitHub](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/com.unity.multiplayer.samples.coop/releases/latest).

Have questions? Chat with us in the [Multiplayer forums](https://forum.unity.com/forums/multiplayer.26) and [Discord](https://discord.gg/buMxnnPvTb) in the #dev-samples channel.